so alex and i
we kind of share a thing
for sleeper pcs so that's to say like
ancient
junker looking cases with just the most
tricked out water-cooled overclocked
systems inside them that can absolutely
shred the latest aaa games
while looking like they came straight
out of the 70s 80s and 90s so what if we
were to take instead of the best
components and give them the old-school
treatment the oldest components and give
them the new school treatment i mean
tempered glass rgb
water cooling full cover blocks pretty
much the works
so that's the goal today but
rather than just taking some entry-level
hardware and putting some lights and
cooling tubes on it instead we put
together my dream pc not my dream pc
today mind you my dream pc from when i
was in high school 2004 this
was the best of the best
and we are gonna do it up
with glasswire you can instantly see
your current and past network activity
detect malware and block badly behaving
apps on your pc or android device use
offer code linus and get 25 off
glasswire at the link below
most of this stuff predates your pc
enthusiast days yeah i was like 11 or so
when this came out okay fair enough now
in fairness to me i wasn't actually that
much older but i was definitely getting
into the custom pc scene and i remember
from
being a kid this
being pretty much my dream cpu this was
the pentium 4 northwood c revision that
means you've got an 800 megahertz front
side bus on this puppy much faster than
the 533 of the northwood b core wow uh
it's 2.4 gigahertz which means yes
technically this wasn't actually the
fastest cpu on the block but wait this
is three gigahertz yeah i specifically
asked for a 2.4c do we have one we do
moving on
this
is what i was really after
so yes technically the 2.4 gigahertz
chip was not the fastest one but what it
was was the lowest cost one that was
overclockable to well beyond the fastest
thing you could buy from intel at the
time so we went out of our way to scour
ebay
for 2.4 c's with the m0 stepping these
things were known to overclock well in
excess of three gigahertz maybe even
over four and remember this is a 2.4
gigahertz chip
imagine getting like an 80 overclock on
something today
that would be fun now the performance
still isn't going to be great because
compared to a coffee lake cpu which does
about uh what is it 32 instructions per
clock single precision this is sitting
at around eight
and it's only a single core
hyper-threaded 32-bit chip so windows xp
anyone should run it well i think now
let's take a look
at our motherboard so this right here is
the biggest baddest motherboard that
ever existed for socket 478. it's got
pretty much everything you could want
you've got your agp yeah five pci
yeah that's sata and in addition to sata
you got not one not two but three ide
ports meaning this thing could support a
total of ten hard drives and a single
floppy nice it even had like fairly
modern features like gigabit lan coaxial
audio out some of these are less modern
there's no usb 3 or anything like that
but who's paying attention have you ever
installed a socket 478 cpu before i
[Applause]
i think so okay you want to do it sure
um there's your arrow hold on do i need
to yeah you lift up the plastic arm goes
out and up
there we go
beautiful do you need help
i don't want you to break it i don't
need help we have two of them it's fine
that is a terrible terrible approach can
i have a look at the pins and make sure
they're not painted yeah i feel like one
of them might be
yeah there's a slightly dent one okay so
there's a bit of a technique for this um
you just have to kind of wiggle wobble
it okay
okay do we have thermal compound no
one moment while he's gone i'm gonna do
a bit of a retro peel
on our ocz
platinum edition enhanced latency
dual channel two gigabyte kit
check this out whoever owned these for
all these years never peeled the logo
i actually still love this heat spreader
design it does look really good you
could polish them up like really near
shiny i think honestly the only reason
that they don't still do it this way is
that it's more expensive like these
modules are heavy these are made of
solid copper oh wow
that feels good doesn't it so these
right here are 400 megahertz kits uh the
tips in them are probably tc cds so two
three two gas two
at 2.8 volts
by modern standards that's a lot of
voltage from memory i'm actually super
pleased with how good the condition of
all this is no leaky caps little bit of
dust
i'm so excited for this build yeah i was
a bit afraid going into it that we'd
have to like recap basically the whole
board before getting it operational but
no these look great yeah so we didn't
think we were going to be able to
achieve
quite the modern look without at least
springing for a modern case so we went
with a fantastic enthu evolve
tempered glass
just great kind of starting point for
any build pretty clean looking i think
this is going to turn out really really
nicely so one question with hardware
this old or going to have to have a cd
player in it a cd player i think you
mean an optical drive
is this the i o shield that we had for
this really doesn't look like it yeah
you're not right guess we're making one
of those oh man
it is an extra slap in the face though
that they like included the wrong one
especially after how much we paid for
this thing yeah that was what 150 bucks
something like that that was with the
cpu though not this cpu yeah i didn't
want that cpu though the only other
modern core component we're using is a
seasonic prime platinum 1300 watt it's
80 plus platinum it's totally overkill
but while we could go back and find
something like an n-tech true power 430
watt or something like that
the odds of a power supply that old
being 100 reliable are significantly
lower than just
grabbing a new power supply and using
that and we really don't want to break
our hardware
you know what the crazy thing is though
all this cabling still actually works
like i don't even know why it is that
they do it this way but on this 1300
watt power supply the 24 pin connector
still breaks away to a 20 pin and the 8
pin cpu power connector still breaks out
into a 4 plus 4. try and think of like
something else
that maintained intercompatibility for
15 years
uh
my grandparents
oh no
so that's actually all we need for
wiring we can go ahead and uh put it in
i really like these like power supply
you like
do all the screws and then you just
slide it in all right our board's wired
up i think it's time for us to move on
so we did allow ourselves to take some
artistic liberties with the actual year
that the hardware came out so this
right here is pretty much as good as it
got for an agp graphics card this
is the geforce
6800 ultra it was built on the 130
nanometer process
it's got two molex connectors and
consumed a total of
110 watts for older games at the sort of
target resolution of 1600 by 1200 this
thing was an absolute monster
yeah i was looking up some of the
reviews and apparently it was like twice
as fast as anything that existed before
it yep well that was back when hardware
used to move at that kind of a pace like
pretty much every generation that came
out turned your previous investment into
complete garbage that's one thing i
don't miss
mismatched pcb colors
maybe we could just take like the back
plate off of a titan or something like
that and smack it on oh that could work
modding a back plate i like it not even
bottom we could just double sided tape
it on another thing that i read about
this graphics card
is that you had to be really careful
about not using
molex that are on the same rail because
apparently you could kill your power
supply yeah that was back when a
high-end power supply was 400 watts
total i think though oh wow oh it has a
game port i remember is that a thing oh
yeah
cool did this board have hd or ac97
audio
uh
of course
how did we overlook this sound cards
sound cards
wow yeah on-board audio was just like
throw away anyway so why bother having a
front panel header for it you know that
this case doesn't actually have a five
and a quarter inch bay right well lots
of cases don't have things that can be
solved with a bit of massaging uh
we could probably just mount it like
down in here like below in front of the
power supply you'd have to like open the
panel it wouldn't be convenient at all
what happens if you want to load games
on it that way i think that's a hard no
so this
is a western digital
raptor x and this hails from a time when
hard drives could be cool so this is a
10 000 rpm drive which decreased seek
times and you can actually see
the seek head moving around while the
drive's operating so we have to find a
way
to get this mounted in like uh a
prominent like place of honor inside the
rig maybe with like some spot lighting
on it
again this is a little a little
let's be careful here that's that's
barely in as far as things we don't want
to drop in this build i think that's
number one this one would be pretty hard
to replace so are we really hooking this
thing up to like a modern gaming monitor
yep i guess getting our hands on an old
like aperture grill or a shadow mask crt
is probably a lot to ask now also this
is just making sure that the core bits
work do you want to do the honors press
it
i'm kind of scared
i hope it works
man back when stock fans sounded like
that aftermarket cooling really made a
lot of sense for everyone oh hey what
what
hey
oh
nice
oh man look at all these like amazing
old overclocking options
it's beautiful
oh
now i'm really excited i guess what
would you play on the system like unreal
tournament you could play with some doom
not the recent doom
the other doom but not the really old
doom see this is why companies shouldn't
call games the same thing it's funny the
amd fanboys at the time of which i was
one were all like
hyper threading uh it doesn't make much
of a difference
and then it wasn't until a few years
later that i actually got my hands on
one of these combos that i subsequently
got rid of that i
actually tried hyper threading and i was
like
oh
oh yeah i know it made a difference it
was pretty common in those days to have
multiple different controller chips for
the different storage ports on your
board because intel zone and amd's for
that matter own chipsets didn't support
a ton of drives so with these fully
featured boards they'd go and they'd
throw usually it was promised for the
early saturdays and did that just boot
yep
okay cool that worked hey there it is uh
can i connect to windows update well you
can try but you're not gonna get a
chance because we actually don't have uh
network drivers is asus's site for this
still live
well all right it's uh live okay
how about that well thank you ah
no no i don't wanna no i don't want to
download updates for search what no
this computer will no longer receive
blah blah blah
uh well let's try it install steam like
does steam even still work for windows
xp nvidia your website just
doesn't even run on this
all right we'll grab the latest driver i
wonder what year it was
2013.
hey nice that's not that bad
oh
we seem to have hit a bit of a stumbling
block
that really does
sort of
bring to light an issue
with all these online drm solutions
like any game that i bought on steam in
the windows xp day is what i just can't
play it what if i couldn't upgrade my
computer what if it was an old game that
doesn't run on windows 10.
so what are we going to do for games
like i have a couple here that are just
on the server all right so what do you
want this is a doom 3 trial sure yeah
okay so here it is we're going to find
out for real running the doom 3 demo if
this rig is fully functional and we are
ready to move on to making our ultimate
ricer pc
oh what ultra quality was 10 24 by seven
i forgot
how brutal this game was on hardware
back then
oh okay
really okay i guess we're sticking with
high quality
it looks really dark
yeah that was sort of an issue with this
game
yeah
so that's it i'm a little disappointed
in the performance i don't know why i
would have been expecting anything else
but um
like it does the trick guys
let us know in the comments if you have
any suggestions for particular things
you'd like to see us do with the rig but
stay tuned because sometime in i think
the next couple of months
this
is going to undergo a complete
transformation
speaking of complete transformations
ting is the mobile carrier that's
focused on customer service and customer
satisfaction and with ting you pay only
for what you use with the average ting
bill coming in at just 23 dollars a
month per device they have no contracts
and you can try it risk free and if
you're stuck in a contract with your
existing carrier and you switch to ting
they'll cover 25 of your cancellation
fee up to 75 dollars they've got
nationwide coverage from coast to coast
in the usa and data is now just ten
dollars a gig beyond the second gig they
never block throttle or interfere with
your online access and you can find out
how much you'll save on ting by going to
linus.ting.com
and trying out their savings calculator
we used their voicemail to text service
and published our number one eight three
three five six five ltt vm to hear some
messages from our fans i unfortunately
don't have access to thing here in the
uk
uh but i would love to get it would save
me
roughly around about
10 pounds if you were to convert it so i
really hope you're able to come over
here into the uk so lower your phone
bill at linus.tang.com and get 25 in ten
credit we'll have that linked below so
thanks for watching guys if you disliked
this video you can hit that button but
if you liked it
hit like get subscribed or maybe
consider checking out where to buy the
stuff we featured at the link in the
video description i think the only
current things are this power supply in
this case
also down there is our merch tour which
has cool shirts like this one and our
community forum which you should totally
join